you can have a basic form up and running
in as little as three clicks of the
mouse for instance in the two trees
database here I can go to the navigation
pane click on the orders table on the
create tab of the ribbon I can click on
form in the forms group access I'll
create a form here based off of that
orders table right now I'm in layout
view which is one of the two editing
modes in the View menu here I'm gonna
switch to form view so I can work with
the data the data in this form is coming
straight out of the orders table right
now I'm looking at record number 1 of
2200 I can see that its order ID 10,000
that it was placed on the 10th of
January 2005 then it was for customer
2461 let's go ahead and see this data in
the orders table I double click on the
orders table I guess see indeed yes that
record number one is order 10,000 on the
10th of January for this particular
customer now the data in this form is a
live link to the data in the table for
instance if I click on the order date
field here and get the calendar picker
and I can change that date click on the
calendar and change it to maybe the 6th
I'll click the pencil icon here to
finalize that change and then I can go
to look at the table again to see the
updated value in the table now this
change goes both ways I can make a
change in the table and we'll see that
updated in the reform I'll click on
order date again click on the calendar
and change it back to the tenth once
again I'll click on the pencil icon or
you press ENTER and move to a different
record we'll go back to the form and
we'll see that the data has changed here
I like to think of these squares as
little windows into the table cells that
they represent so the data here is the
exact same data that you're seeing here
ok let's go ahead and close the orders
table this form while it is technically
correct it's showing me data straight
from that data table it leaves a lot to
be desired for instance it's showing me
this customer ID but I don't know who
this customer is it's also showing you
this Product ID but I'm not really sure
exactly which product this means I would
like to have a better text description
of this customers name and the Product
ID because our Access database is built
around the idea of related tables we can
get that information by incorporating a
few more data sources into our form
let's use the form wizard of walk us
through the process and get a more
useful form than the one we have now
I'll go ahead and close this form out
and I'm not going to save it I'll say
notice a now we can go to the create tab
on the ribbon and click on form wizard
then we'll start up the wizard where we
could choose the tables that we want to
incorporate fields from for instance
let's go ahead
a form similar to the one we just had
except has those other pieces that we
wanted the name and the product ID will
go to the orders table and I'll choose
order ID order date and then we'll
switch to a different table here we'll
pull it information from our direct
customers table I'll click on that it
will add first name and last name and
finally I'll choose from my products
table we'll go back up to the drop-down
choose table products here and we'll get
the product name and I'll add that from
the available fields to the selected
fields section we'll go ahead and say
next the next screen asks us how we want
to view our data if I choose by table
orders it's going to show me one page of
the form for every record if I choose my
table product it'll show me a product
name in all the orders that are
associated that included that product
likewise if I click on direct customers
it'll show me a customer name and then
all of the orders that that customer has
placed we'll look at these options here
in just a moment so for now just click
on table orders and we'll click Next
we'll go ahead and choose the default
format for the layout say next here and
now we can give our form a title if we'd
like I'm just going to accept the
default title here and I'll choose to
open the form to view or enter
information we'll say finish so already
we've got a form that's better than the
one that we created just a moment ago
I've got the same order ID and order
date but now I know who placed the order
and what exactly they ordered let's take
a look at a couple of other options that
we had in the wizard I'm gonna go ahead
and close this form here go back to the
create tab and choose form wizard again
let's build the same form and we'll
choose a different option later on so
I'll go from the orders table I want to
order ID an order date go back up here
to the direct customers table where I
got first name and last name once again
we'll go to the top and this time I'll
choose table products to get the product
name we'll say next and this time in
this screen we're going to choose buy
table products now access gives us two
different options I could either have a
form with sub forms or late forms let's
go ahead and choose form with sub forms
now and we'll look at Lake forms in just
a moment go ahead and say next we'll
accept the default layout next we'll
accept the default names go and say
finish here's a form with a subform
attached to it now it could use a little
bit of help in the layout but what is
showing us right now is that I've got 90
different products for those 90 products
these are all the order IDs and order
dates and customers that have placed
orders for that product I could scroll
through
here for instance I'll go to product
number 8 the extra virgin oil and 32
ounce size and I guess the all of the
customers that have ordered that product
and I've had a total of 21 different
orders let's go ahead and close this and
we'll look at the other option once
again to the create tab form wizard
we'll build the same table so I'll take
order ID and order date we'll go to the
customers table blood first name and
last name and we'll go to the products
table and choose product name okay once
we get those five fields we'll say next
this time we're gonna choose buy table
products again but we'll choose the
linked forms option this will show us
the same data in two separate forms that
we got on the last one with a subform go
ahead and say next this time I'm going
to change the names we're gonna go ahead
and use these two files in next exercise
so for the first form we're gonna call
it product selection in the second form
we're gonna call orders by product go
ahead and say finish here and access
will update those forms now we've got a
little bit of a problem here the default
selections create this button that
appears behind this label so if I try
and click on the button I can't the
label is in front of it in order to fix
this I actually need to jump into layout
view for just a moment we're gonna look
at layout view in the next movie but for
now just go ahead to the View menu
choose layout view well click on the
title here and I'm gonna click and drag
to slide it over then I'll click on the
button click and drag and slide it over
and then we move the label back ok now
that they're separated we'll go back in
to form view and I'll test out the
functionality just like the last form I
can cycle through my products here so go
to record number six here the extra
virgin oil and the eight ounce size and
I'll press the orders by-product button
when I press that I get a second form
that opens you might have noticed that
the navigation pane here when it opens
up it's showing me all of the records
for each customer that have placed
orders for that product I can see I have
a total of 27 records or 27 orders for
that specific oil so using the wizard we
were able to create three slightly
different user experiences and using
data for multiple related tables we were
able to get details on order activity at
the two trees olive oil company now as
is typical what the objects created with
a wizard we have a good starting point
but we need to clean this up a bit
before it's presentable we'll take a
look at the layout view in the next
we to finish this forum